All right now that we have our compiler installed Let's see how we can start using it.
I'm going to clear this and make this a little bit bigger so you can see all we need to do to create
a typescript file is to have a dot ts at the end of the file just like we have dodgiest for javascript.
All we need is a TS file and that is a type script file.
So let's do that let's make a directory first.
We'll call that type.
All right.
I already have it made we CD into that folder.
So not to make territory we want a CD and to type and in here we can do touch type script dot TS for
a typescript file.
Let's open that in subline
and we have our typescript file and again I have a nice little plug and it gives me a type or a type
script icon over here and it's already detecting it.
Now to get your editor set up to understand typescript you might have to google around and say how can
we add typescript to your editor and I'm going to leave resources for you to do that as well.
For Sublime Text All you need to do is do command shift.
On a Mac you might have to do a control shift P on Windows.
You do install packages and then within install packages just simply do typescript.
And I've already installed the package.
So you see that it doesn't show up here but it should just be this simple typescript package.
There's a few others that you can download but the simple type of one should do just fine.
Once you do that if you go to the bottom over here you'll see that my editor recognizes the TS file
as typescript and that's how you can check that your editor has those syntax highlighting for it.
Again you can see that God type script all set up
let's write a simple typescript line here.
We're going to go back to our simple example of a function some that takes in a and b and it's going
to return.
Let's say a
a plus b.
A very simple function.
I'm going to save this and let's run this through the compiler.
Let's bring up the terminal.
I'm going to actually just put this on one file just so it looks nice and in here we can run TS C for
typescript compiler and the file.
We want to run the compiler.
In our case the typescript dot TS So typescript
TS let's say set enter while I've been coding a lot you may have noticed that.
Why don't you just write an error function and again type scrip detects these errors any time you enter
invalid javascript.
It's going to be on line when you're doing something funny were you trying to do so again.
Let's write proper javascript so this one is just a function declaration so let's save and run that
again.
All right that was it.
No errors but you see here that the typescript dot js file was created and if I go to typescript Yes
all right I have the exact same output.
This function.
This function went through the compiler and it got compiled to javascript.
Well nothing is really different because we didn't do anything different here.
All right so let's turn this into a Erol function.
Let's just say consomme equals
her function and run in to the compiler again and it looks like there's no error so let's go back to
our jazz file and.
Whoa.
Look at that.
It's changed our javascript or our typescript to a javascript file but it's using the Yes 5 syntax so
no error function here.
And you might be wondering to yourself doesn't this what Babel do.
Well let's go to Babbel.
Open up the browser and say Babel and go to the Bible compiler.
And they have a nifty little tool here that says Just try it out.
And right here we can actually just run what we've done here so let's just copy and paste our function
and see what we get.
If we click on and preset we see that we're getting the same thing.
It's compiling down our new ESX code too.
Yes five.
So yeah it's doing the exact same thing as babble.
And this is another way to try new features of javascript and still compile it down to something that
a browser understands.
And now it might make sense why typescript is a superset of javascript typescript allows us to use new
features that javascript otherwise wouldn't have and we just get to compile it.
Typescript also tries to stay in line with modern features of javascript so they'll actually implemented
so that the compiler understands how our functions as well.
Very cool.
Now let's write our first type.
The syntax for typescript again.
They have a really good documentation on this and we're going to go step by step is to do something
like a coaching or in our case it's a number and B should also be a number.
When two outs bases here just to make it cleaner all right.
If I save this now and watch this as I have over do you see how my editor is giving me a little hint.
That's another benefit of typescript.
It's going to help me with some pants as I'm working on my code.
But for now let's see what it compiles to.
I want to run it again and go to my javascript file and yep we don't have any of this number number
stuff.
The compiler takes it out because this is the code that's going into production and we don't want these
X sure bytes in our code that's going to make our code heavier to send to the client.
So the compiler does this automatically for us.
Very cool.
But check this out.
If I do some four plus five well what did I just do.
My editor.
Automatically I didn't do anything other than have my typescript set up with my editor.
I get expected to arguments but got one because I'm doing four plus five.
Again if we do four come a five now everything should work.
And I'm not getting any errors.
If I save and run TMC everything works.
Our code is still working.
If I console dialog and let's just give it a constant answer.
And what is this console log.
The answer.
And let's run this again.
All right.
Everything is working but if I do know what type skip dodgy us I get the answer of 9.
Very cool.
What if I do a string saying hello do you see that my editor has an underline of red.
Now and if I hover over this underline kind of like a spell checker on your word or text document says
argument of typo is not assignable to a parameter of type number because I've said that a has a type
of number.
Even if I tried to run TSC now oh I didn't save it you save that even if I ran TSC now.
It actually will throw an error saying that exactly what it said in my editor.
That type of string isn't going to work with type of number.
How cool is that.
This is what we mean where we say that it catches errors at compile time because this code will never
make it out to production because in order for us to send code to production we must first convert it
to Javascript.
And when we convert to javascript we catch those errors in our compiler and if it throws any errors
we know we need to fix them versus Javascript the way that it works is this javascript gets sent to
the browser and the browser does what it's called a just in time compiling and compiles the code on
the spot.
For each one of their users and this will more likely throw an error and the user might see a blank
screen or a bread and we wouldn't know what to do.
So that's pretty nice.
And by the way you may have noticed that it still compiles our javascript to the hello string parameter.
That's just something that it does.
But you can see here that the errors do come out so that you wouldn't actually send this to production
you'll see that there's errors and that you need to fix some stuff.
All right.
This looks pretty exciting and promising.
We just had this great feature added to make sure that our code is less error prone.
Go try it out on your own.
Make sure that your text editor has all of this setup and keep in mind.
If you're having issues with your editor Google is your friend here.
There's ton of resources online for whatever editor you have to set it up with the typescript but it
shouldn't take you more than a couple minutes.
Maybe Max an hour.
All right I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.